rfc: namespace seal lifecycle for auto-seal types (#83)
Ki-Reply-GmbH/openbao: website/content/community/rfcs/namespace-seal-lifecycle.mdx

| Method | Path |
|--------|------|
| `PUT`  | `/v1/sys/namespaces/<path>/config/seal` |

This endpoint requires sudo privilege. Before committing, OpenBao verifies that
the new credentials can decrypt the existing root key (test-before-swap). If
verification fails, the update is rejected and the existing configuration is
kept.

Key replacement and seal type changes are migrations and require a separate
endpoint; see Unresolved Questions.

### Reading Seal Configuration

| Method | Path |
|--------|------|
| `GET`  | `/v1/sys/namespaces/<path>/config/seal` |

Returns the current seal configuration with sensitive fields redacted. Provider
type, endpoint, and key identifier are returned. Credentials, tokens, and
passwords are omitted.

This endpoint is distinct from `/v1/sys/namespaces/<path>/seal-status`, which
reports operational state (sealed or unsealed, unseal progress). `/config/seal`
is for verifying that the configuration is correct; `/seal-status` is for
observing runtime state.

### Removing a Seal Configuration

An active seal configuration cannot be deleted directly. Operators must first
migrate to a different seal or to a normal unsealable namespace, then

> decommission the old seal stanza. This is consistent with the treatment of

Reviewer: Ah I thought by migrating the namespace to unsealable there's no more a "seal stanza" to decommission, but maybe I missed something here?
Edit: also since we're putting seal config in an API call I'm not sure if we still call it a seal stanza

active seal stanzas at the global level.

### Migration

Three migration cases exist. The first two are in scope for this RFC. The third
is out of scope and tracked separately.

**KMS key change**: the namespace remains sealable; the cryptographic key
changes. The root key is re-encrypted under the new seal. No storage copying is
required.

**Seal type change**: the namespace remains sealable; the seal type changes
between auto-seal and Shamir. The root key is re-encrypted under the new seal.
No storage copying is required. When moving from auto-seal to Shamir, the
operator receives key shares in the response. When moving from Shamir to
auto-seal, the operator supplies existing key shares to authorize the change.

> 

Reviewer: do we need to list a third case where we're migrating between auto seal providers? say, from AWS to Azure. I suppose the migration mechanism remains the same though

Reviewer: Or maybe technically this would also fall under `KMS Key change`

Reviewer 2: https://openbao.org/docs/concepts/seal/#seal-migration

**Normal &lt;=&gt; sealable conversion**: the namespace changes type, gaining or losing
a dedicated barrier. All storage must be migrated under a different barrier. This
operation is out of scope for this RFC and is tracked in
https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issues/3333.

The endpoints for the in-scope cases are not yet defined; see Unresolved
Questions.

### Failure Conditions

If the KMS provider is temporarily unreachable, the namespace remains sealed
until connectivity is restored. No operator action is required.

If credentials expire, the operator must update them via `PUT /config/seal`
before the namespace can be unsealed. This endpoint must remain reachable even

> when the namespace is sealed.

Reviewer: What do you think about https://github.com/Ki-Reply-GmbH/openbao/pull/83#discussion_r3871984041
if parallel unseal/emergency seal can be an escape hatch for this maybe we don't need this endpoint to be available when the namespace is sealed?

Reviewer 2: Isn't it parent-namespace endpoint anyway, so we can assume it available by default? No need to complicate this, the config entry is also owned by the parent.

Reviewer: ah yeah I missed that all this belongs to the parent ns, makes sense

## Technical Description

### Test-Before-Swap Guard

The credential update endpoint verifies the new configuration before committing
it. After initializing the new seal wrapper, OpenBao calls `GetStoredKeys` to
confirm that the new credentials can decrypt the existing root key. If this call
fails, the new wrapper is finalized and the existing configuration is kept.

```go
// test-before-swap guard in SetSeal update path
if prevSeal != nil {
    if _, err := nsSeal.GetStoredKeys(ctx); err != nil {
        _ = nsSeal.Finalize(ctx)
        return fmt.Errorf("new seal cannot read existing root key: %w", err)
    }
}
_ = prevSeal.Finalize(ctx)
sm.sealByNamespace[ns.UUID] = nsSeal
```

### Migration -- Root Key Re-encryption

Two in-scope migration cases share the same mechanism: the root key is decrypted
under the old seal and re-encrypted under the new one. Recovery keys, if supported
by the seal type, must also be re-encrypted. No storage copying is required; the
namespace data remains in place.

**KMS key change**: an already-sealable namespace changes which cryptographic key
protects its root key. The seal type remains the same; only the key identifier

> changes.

Reviewer: same question as https://github.com/Ki-Reply-GmbH/openbao/pull/83/changes#r3895564461

for new encryptions, so OpenBao does not need to re-encrypt the barrier key.

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|
| 3a | Same provider, changed credentials, same key | test-before-swap in pending PR; no update path in upstream | seal_manager.go:112 (early return if seal exists); seal_autoseal.go:147 (GetStoredKeys) |
| 3b | Different compatible provider, same key | Covered by same guard as 3a | seal_autoseal.go:115 (Init), seal_autoseal.go:147 (GetStoredKeys) |
| 3c | KMS-internal key rotation with version retention | Handled transparently by provider; no action needed from OpenBao | -- |

```go
// seal_manager.go -- test-before-swap guard in SetSeal update path
if prevSeal != nil && nsSeal.BarrierType() != vaultseal.WrapperTypeShamir {
    if _, err := nsSeal.GetStoredKeys(ctx); err != nil {
        _ = nsSeal.Finalize(ctx)
        return fmt.Errorf("new seal cannot read existing stored keys: "+
            "only credential rotation is supported, not key replacement: %w", err)
    }
}
_ = prevSeal.Finalize(ctx)
sm.sealByNamespace[ns.UUID] = nsSeal
```

> ### Update -- Migration

Reviewer: Should we also mention that the recovery keys should be re-encrypted as well, not just the root key?

> Migration covers the cases where the cryptographic key changes and the barrier key must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migration covers the cases where the cryptographic key changes and the root key must
```
I think in most of the place the root key is meant? I'm under the impression that the barrier key is a bit ambiguous and can be interpreted as the encryption key in the barrier keyring.

}

// 4c: from auto-seal to Shamir -- response includes key shares
resp.Data["key_shares"] = encodeShares(shares)
resp.Data["key_threshold"] = sealConfig.SecretThreshold

// 4d: from Shamir to auto-seal -- operator must authenticate first
if err := sm.AuthenticateRootKey(ctx, ns, combinedKey); err != nil {
    return nil, logical.ErrPermissionDenied
}
```

### Delete

The semantics of removing a namespace seal are not yet defined and represent an area that
warrants explicit community discussion before any implementation begins. Three
interpretations are reasonable, each with different implications for operators.

If deleting the seal triggers an implicit migration to Shamir, the namespace continues to
function with a manual unseal, and the operator receives key shares. This is the safest
interpretation for data continuity but the most complex to implement.

If removing the seal renders the namespace inaccessible, the barrier key remains in
storage but cannot be decrypted without the original KMS access. The namespace is
effectively suspended until KMS access is restored or the seal is reconfigured. This may
be an acceptable behavior in some operational contexts.

> If deleting a seal is not allowed as a standalone operation, an operator who wants to

Reviewer: Personally I think this would be the cleanest way to go, if you want to "remove" a seal from a namespace, you can migrate it to an unsealable

```go
// logical_system.go -- add /config/seal to PathsSpecial.Root
Root: []string{
    "auth/*",
    // ... existing entries ...
    "namespaces/+/config/seal", // requires sudo or root token
},
```

### Error States and Recovery

Three failure conditions are worth distinguishing, as they require different recovery paths.

If the KMS provider is temporarily unreachable, the namespace remains sealed and unseal
attempts fail until provider connectivity is restored. No operator action is required
beyond restoring access.

If credentials expire, the situation is similar at the surface but the recovery path goes
through the credential rotation endpoint. This means the rotation endpoint must remain
accessible even when the namespace is sealed, which has implications for routing and
authorization.

If the KMS key is deleted at the provider, the barrier key is permanently undecipherable
and recovery requires either a backup of the barrier key material or a previously
completed migration to a different key. This case suggests that documenting and
encouraging proactive migration before decommissioning a KMS key would be valuable

> operational guidance.

Reviewer: We can probably leave these to be solved by Emergency Seal/Parallel Unseal?

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|
| 9a | Write coordination: active node only | Consistent with existing behavior | seal_manager.go:106 (SetSeal acquires lock) |
| 9b | Standby credential freshness after rotation | Invalidation path not verified for seal config | internal/vault/invalidation.go (invalidation framework, to be extended) |
| 9c | Migration state visibility across nodes | Not defined for namespace seals | -- |
| 9d | Seal deletion coordination across nodes | Not defined | -- |

```go
// invalidation.go -- extend invalidation to cover seal config changes
func (c *Core) invalidate(ctx context.Context, key string) {
    switch {
    // ... existing cases ...
    case strings.HasPrefix(key, "sys/namespaces/") &&
        strings.HasSuffix(key, "/config/seal"):
        ns := c.extractNamespaceFromKey(key)
        // reload credentials from storage on all nodes
        c.sealManager.ReloadSealConfig(ctx, ns)
    }
}
```

## Proposed API Surface

The following endpoint is proposed as the primary API for namespace seal lifecycle
operations. It does not yet exist in the codebase.

> PUT /v1/sys/namespaces/path/config/seal accepts a seal configuration and applies the

Reviewer: I guess this means OpenBao implicitly figures by itself if a key is unchanged. Would it be better to communicate this more explicitly on the API layer what the intent of the operator is for example by having separate endpoint?

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't allow for namespace seal creation through this endpoint, in my mind following operations are allowed:
- sealable namespace creation through `v1/sys/namespaces/<path>` call with provided seal config
- sealable <=> unsealable namespace migration through other currently not specified endpoint
- seal config updates through `v1/sys/namespaces/path/config/seal` proposed here endpoint

appropriate operation based on the current state of the namespace seal: create if no seal

> exists, rotation if the key is unchanged, or migration if the key changes. Sudo privilege

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exists, seal config update if the key is unchanged, or migration if the key changes. Sudo privilege
```
I think this might be a bit clearer, since we're not rotating any key material here?

is required.

> GET /v1/sys/namespaces/path/config/seal is explicitly not proposed. Seal configuration

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to only redact sensitive fields (password, token, username etc...) instead of forbidding GET? I can imagine the operator wants to verify their seal configs and thus need to have a GET

Reviewer 3: doesn't `v1/seal-status` already suit our purposes here?

Reviewer 4: > Maybe it's better to only redact sensitive fields (password, token, username etc...) instead of forbidding GET? I can imagine the operator wants to verify their seal configs and thus need to have a GET

I would agree and prefer implementing GET with sensitive fields redacted

---
sidebar_label: Namespace Seal Lifecycle
description: |-
  An RFC to discuss the full lifecycle of auto-seal configuration for sealable namespaces,
  covering creation, credential rotation, migration, deletion, and operational concerns
  in clustered deployments.
---

# RFC: Namespace Auto-Seal Lifecycle

## Summary

OpenBao v2.6 introduced sealable namespaces, which allow individual namespaces to maintain
their own barrier protected by a dedicated seal. The namespace creation endpoint accepts a
seal parameter, and a migration path between normal and sealable namespaces is being

> developed (see issue #3333). However, a formal definition of the full lifecycle of a

Reviewer 2: Either properly link the issue or don't mention it. It's probably not worth a mention either way since it is a separate topic.

namespace seal does not yet exist, particularly when the seal is an auto-seal type backed

> by an external KMS provider such as Transit, AWS KMS, or Azure Key Vault.

Reviewer 2: While somewhat obvious, this glosses over the fact that per-namespace Auto Seals in fact do not yet exist, and that it is also the objective of this RFC to define how those are supposed to work more generally.

This RFC proposes a taxonomy of namespace seal lifecycle operations, identifies what is
already implemented or planned, surfaces the areas that warrant community discussion,

> and suggests a consistent API surface for managing auto-seal configuration on namespaces.

Reviewer 2: I don't really understand why we're focused on "proposing a taxonomy". This is an RFC, it's meant to propose a set of changes to solve a problem. As part of proposing a solution we may include an analysis (= taxonomy), yes, but that not what an RFC proposes, it is what an RFC uses to come to a change proposal derived from it.

> ## Scope

Reviewer 2: Why doesn't this follow the standard RFC format at all? I would've expected "Problem statement", "User-facing description", "Technical description" at this stage. One big aspect of RFCs is that they all follow the same structure whenever there is no good reason to deviate, which I don't see here.

The following areas are worth defining clearly before further implementation proceeds.

There is currently no API to configure an auto-seal type for a namespace at creation time
or afterwards. The namespace creation endpoint accepts a seal parameter but limits it to
Shamir. Operators who want to use Transit or a cloud KMS for namespace auto-unseal would

> benefit from a supported path for this.

Reviewer 2: We usually use "HSMs or KMSes" to broadly describe Auto Seal backends. Transit is roughly an open-source cloud KMS so it's unnatural to name it separately.

The operation of changing the seal configuration of an existing namespace is not yet
formally defined. A distinction between rotating credentials, migrating to a different
key, and migrating to a different seal type would clarify the expected behavior and the

> guarantees each operation provides.

Reviewer 2: 👍

The behavior of a namespace seal under operational conditions such as temporary provider
unavailability, credential expiry, or key decommissioning deserves explicit documentation
and a structured recovery path.

All of the above becomes more nuanced in a clustered deployment where the active node and
standby nodes may hold different views of the seal configuration in memory. This RFC
proposes that cluster behavior be treated as a cross-cutting concern that applies to every
operation in the taxonomy.

## A Note on Code Sketches

Each section below includes a short Go sketch to make the proposed behavior
concrete for reviewers. These are illustrative only and are not intended as
implementation proposals. Error handling and locking are omitted for brevity.

## Lifecycle Taxonomy

### Create

The simplest case is creating a new sealable namespace with an auto-seal configuration
provided at creation time. This is partially implemented in a pending pull request that

> extends the seal parameter on the namespace creation endpoint to accept auto-seal types.

Reviewer 2: Not relevant, just link the partial PoC in the PoC section.

A second subcase worth discussing is adding a seal to an existing namespace that was
created without one. Because the barrier may already contain data, this case is closer

> to a migration than a creation and may warrant a distinct operation.

Reviewer 2: Do we really care about this within the context of this RFC?

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|

> | 2a | New namespace with auto-seal at creation time | Rejected in upstream; pending merge | logical_system_namespaces.go:378 |

Reviewer 2: Please don't refer to code by lines. Lines are bound to change under your feet. Referring to code by file name / function name / type name is okay as those are slightly more persistent.

It's also not pending merge on the upstream repo, so this is confusing for any external reviewers.

Reviewer 4: @satoqz would be line numbers + commit hash ok?

Reviewer 2: Sure, but I still think it's overkill to reference exact code locations.

| 5c | Delete renders namespace inaccessible | Not defined; requires discussion | logical_system_namespaces_seals.go:144 (delete-sealed wipes storage, adjacent concept) |
| 5d | Delete is forbidden without prior migration | Not defined; requires discussion | -- |

```go
// four possible implementations of DELETE /config/seal -- for discussion

// Option A: implicit migration to unsealable (namespace inherits parent barrier)
func handleSealConfigDelete(ctx, req, data) (*logical.Response, error) {
    return b.handleMigrateBarrier(ctx, req, nil) // nil seal = revert to parent
}
// Option B: implicit migration to Shamir
func handleSealConfigDelete(ctx, req, data) (*logical.Response, error) {
    return b.handleMigrateBarrier(ctx, req, shamirConfig)
}
// Option C: suspend namespace (inaccessible until KMS restored)
func handleSealConfigDelete(ctx, req, data) (*logical.Response, error) {
    return sm.SuspendNamespaceSeal(ctx, ns)
}
// Option D: reject -- require explicit migration first
func handleSealConfigDelete(ctx, req, data) (*logical.Response, error) {
    return nil, errors.New("seal cannot be removed; perform a migration first")
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we care about `DELETE /config/seal` at all, as in I don't see a reason to implement an endpoint with any particular behavior. Tom's work is going to let you "remove" a seal by converting sealable namespace <-> normal namespace.

API call logging.

Events that would be meaningful to log include creation, credential rotation, migration
start, migration completion or rollback, and any deletion or suspension. The content of
each event should include the provider type and key identifier but must never include
credentials or key material.

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|
| 6a | Events to log: create, rotate, migrate, delete, failures | Not yet instrumented explicitly | -- |
| 6b | Log content: provider type, key identifier, timestamp, outcome | Not yet defined | seal.go (SealConfig struct, KMSConfig field) |

```go
// audit event for seal lifecycle operations
core.auditBroker.LogRequest(ctx, &logical.LogInput{
    Auth:    auth,
    Request: &logical.Request{
        Operation: logical.UpdateOperation,
        Path:      "sys/namespaces/" + ns.Path + "/config/seal",
        Data: map[string]interface{}{
            "provider": sealConfig.Type,
            "key_id":   sealConfig.KMSConfig["key_name"], // no credentials logged
            "action":   "rotation", // or "migration", "create"
        },
    },
})

> ```

Reviewer 2: You're not making a good enough case as to why standard request audit logging is insufficient. Optimally, the existing request/response-derived audit log events would suffice, and I don't see why they don't?

Audit logs do not expose credentials unless `log_raw` is used and HMAC all request/response data by default. So this is not a good enough reason.

namespace properties are reachable by tokens with update capability on that path. A
separate, explicitly privileged endpoint for seal configuration resolves this without
changing the authorization requirements for other namespace operations.

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|
| 7a | sudo or root required for all /config/seal operations | Not yet implemented; endpoint does not exist | logical_system.go:67 (PathsSpecial.Root, namespaces/* absent) |
| 7b | sys/namespaces/* ACL gap for seal-adjacent properties | Known; resolved by dedicated endpoint | logical_system_namespaces_seals.go:316 (SudoPrivilege pattern, reference) |

```go
// logical_system.go -- add /config/seal to PathsSpecial.Root
Root: []string{
    "auth/*",
    // ... existing entries ...
    "namespaces/+/config/seal", // requires sudo or root token
},
```

### Error States and Recovery

Three failure conditions are worth distinguishing, as they require different recovery paths.

If the KMS provider is temporarily unreachable, the namespace remains sealed and unseal
attempts fail until provider connectivity is restored. No operator action is required

> beyond restoring access.

Reviewer 2: What triggers an unseal attempt? A background routine like the root seal has? The namespace unseal endpoint, combined with an initial attempt when the parent unseals?

encouraging proactive migration before decommissioning a KMS key would be valuable
operational guidance.

Cases 8a and 8c are addressed by the [Emergency Seal](emergency-seal.mdx) and
[Parallel Unseal](parallel-unseal.mdx) RFCs: Emergency Seal provides a break-glass
Shamir fallback when KMS access fails permanently, and Parallel Unseal allows a
secondary seal to maintain availability when the primary is unreachable. This RFC
does not propose additional solutions for those subcases.

A fourth condition arises during migration: a partial failure leaves the namespace in a
state where neither the old nor the new key is reliably authoritative. Operators would
benefit from a way to query this state and either resume or roll back the migration.
This case (8d) is specific to the lifecycle operations described here and is not
addressed by Emergency Seal or Parallel Unseal.

| Subcase | Description | Status | Related Code |
|---------|-------------|--------|--------------|
| 8a | KMS temporarily unreachable | Surfaces as unseal error; recovery is automatic | seal_autoseal.go:115 (Init propagates provider error) |

> | 8b | Credentials expired | Requires rotation endpoint to be reachable while sealed | seal_autoseal.go:147 (GetStoredKeys propagates auth error) |

Reviewer: I'm under the impression that Parallel Unseal/Emergency Seal solves this too, so we don't need to have the rotation endpoint open when the namespace is sealed?

```go
// structured sentinel errors allow callers to distinguish recovery paths
var (
    ErrSealProviderUnreachable = errors.New("KMS provider temporarily unreachable")
    ErrSealCredentialsExpired  = errors.New("KMS credentials expired; rotation required")
    ErrSealKeyDeleted          = errors.New("KMS key no longer exists; migration required")
)
// example: operator-facing message differs by error type
if errors.Is(err, ErrSealCredentialsExpired) {
    return logical.ErrorResponse("update credentials via PUT /config/seal"), err
}
```

### Cluster Behavior

Cluster behavior is a cross-cutting concern that applies to every operation in this
taxonomy. Only the active node can write to storage, so all seal lifecycle operations
must be initiated there, which is consistent with the general behavior of write operations
in OpenBao.

The more nuanced question is credential freshness on standby nodes. After a credential
rotation, standby nodes may hold the old credentials in memory and be unable to unseal
the namespace until they restart or receive an explicit invalidation signal. Whether the
existing invalidation framework covers seal configuration changes, and whether it needs

> to be extended, is worth verifying.

Reviewer 2: Why are we leaving it at "worth verifying"? If not workable, you should make a case as to why we need a separate mechanism. If workable, mention that we use extend the existing invalidation mechanism to handle updates to seal configs.

    switch {
    // ... existing cases ...
    case strings.HasPrefix(key, "sys/namespaces/") &&
        strings.HasSuffix(key, "/config/seal"):
        ns := c.extractNamespaceFromKey(key)
        // reload credentials from storage on all nodes
        c.sealManager.ReloadSealConfig(ctx, ns)
    }
}
```

## Proposed API Surface

The following endpoints are proposed for namespace seal lifecycle operations. They do not
yet exist in the codebase.

PUT /v1/sys/namespaces/path/config/seal handles credential and configuration updates to
an existing namespace seal: replacing expired credentials, changing the provider endpoint,
or any other change that does not replace the underlying cryptographic key. Sudo privilege
is required. The existing test-before-swap guard verifies that the new configuration can
decrypt the existing root key before committing. This endpoint does not handle creation
or migration. Creation of a sealable namespace with an auto-seal type is handled by
POST /v1/sys/namespaces/path at namespace creation time. Migration (key replacement or
seal type change) is handled by a dedicated endpoint not yet specified, consistent with

> the approach in issue #3333.

Reviewer 2: This RFC should ***at minimum*** spec out key replacement. It'd be very good to cover full on seal migration as well, but it's okayish if you'd prefer to defer that.

GET /v1/sys/namespaces/path/config/seal returns the current seal configuration with
sensitive fields redacted. Provider type, endpoint, and key identifier are returned.
Credentials, tokens, passwords, and key material are omitted. This endpoint is distinct
from /seal-status, which reports operational state (sealed or unsealed, unseal progress,
and seal type): /config/seal is for verifying that the configuration applied matches
operator intent, while /seal-status is for observing the runtime state. Sudo privilege
is required.

The endpoint name follows the pattern established by issue #3333 and is distinct from the
existing /seal endpoint, which triggers the seal operation, and from /seal-status, which

> reports the current sealed state.

Reviewer 2: 3333 itself doesn't propose any particular endpoint name? Tom's associated PR currently proposes:

```
/v1/sys/namespaces/:name/migrate-barrier
```

I don't see how

```
/v1/sys/namespaces/:name/config/seal
```

follows any pattern based on the former?

## Rationale and Alternatives

Grouping all seal configuration operations under a single dedicated endpoint keeps the
authorization model simple: one path, one privilege level, one audit trail. Distributing
seal configuration changes across multiple existing endpoints (POST /sys/namespaces/path,
PATCH, or others) would make it harder to apply consistent authorization requirements and
would conflate administrative namespace management with security-critical seal operations.

The decision to expose seal configuration via GET with sensitive fields redacted follows
from the operational need to verify that a credential rotation or configuration change
was applied correctly. Returning only non-sensitive fields (provider type, endpoint, key

> identifier) gives operators a confirmation path without exposing credentials or key

Reviewer 2: It'd be good to include a mention on how "returning only non-sensitive fields" is going to work across plugins with varying sensitive field names that OpenBao has no native understanding of. The likely answer is that we'll use the same pattern that external keys use, but it's not mentioned here.

material. Fields such as tokens, passwords, and secret keys are omitted from the response
in the same way that auth configuration endpoints handle sensitive values elsewhere in
OpenBao.

## Open Questions

What should the semantics of deleting a namespace seal be? Should it trigger a migration
to Shamir, render the namespace inaccessible, or require a prior explicit migration?

> 

Reviewer 2: You shouldn't be able to? We'd be able to remove seal stanzas that we've since migrated off of, but not the active one.

Reviewer 3: > We'd be able to remove seal stanzas that we've since migrated off of, but not the active one.

@satoqz
Do note that there's no "seal stanza" as in the OpenBao config sense, config provided with creation of the sealable namespace is stateless, so there's no removal of migrated from seal semantic here.

as for the RFC, I don't see a point in having a "seal removal", leave that functionality up to (sealable <=> unsealable) namespace migration.

Should migration between auto-seal types reuse the shadow-copy mechanism from issue #3333,

> or should it use a different in-place re-encryption approach?

Reviewer 2: Why would we possibly want that. It defeats the entire purpose of key wrapping.

Should there be a status endpoint or field for ongoing migrations?

How should standby nodes be notified of seal credential rotations, and what is an
acceptable window during which a standby may use stale credentials?

Should the rotation and migration subcases be exposed as a single endpoint that detects
the appropriate operation, or as separate endpoints with distinct semantics?

## Related Work

Issue openbao/openbao#3333 -- Normal Namespace to Sealable Namespace migration, open,

> no milestone.

Reviewer 2: Just link it as:

```markdown
- https://github.com/openbao/openbao/issue/3333
```

not in LLM formatting together with irrelevant LLM-added information such as "no milestone".
